---
title: Secure Shell Key Pairs
date: 2022-07-03 1:10PM
categories: [AWS,Cloud,Notes]
tags: [aws,ssh,security]
---
***

# **Secure Shell Protocol(SSH)**

### The industry-standard tool for safely encrypting remote login sessions is the Secure Shell (SSH) protocol. Without encryption, all commands and keystrokes you enter during a terminal session run over an insecure network will be easily readable by anyone with access to that network. When that “network” is the internet, that can add up to a lot of unfriendly eyes on your data.

### Encryption converts those plain-text data packets into what looks like gibberish. Indeed, ideally assuming no one has yet cracked the encryption algorithm you’re using—that text is and will remain gibberish, unless you happen to have the decryption key required to decrypt it. The SSH protocol manages the encryption and decryption steps in the process as long as compatible keys are present at both ends of the connection.

### When you launch a new EC2 Linux instance (and a heavy majority of EC2 instances are running one flavor or another of Linux), you’ll be prompted either to use an existing SSH key pair or to create a new one. Similar to access keys, you’ll get only one opportunity to download the private half of the SSH key pair to your own computer. Again, do so without publicly exposing the file.

### Once the private key is downloaded (and, for Linux and macOS, given appropriate permissions), you open SSH sessions to your instances by invoking the key in a connection command that might look something like this:
```bash
ssh -i keyname.pem ec2-user@<public_ip_address_of_instance>
```